Trump's bullshit blitz has Europe on its knees

It was only a month ago that the patron of the pole dancers, the explorer of refrigerators, the Brexit doer, the model bus maker, the sofa strainer, the wall spaffer, the current Daily Mail columnist, and the former British prime minister Boris Johnson eulogized the inauguration of Donald Trump in the Mail, recounting how, as the "invisible pulse of power surged" from the battered Bible into the hand of Trump: "I saw the moment the world's workers had worked so hard to prevent."

I hope Johnson is pleased with the way things have worked out. Because now the foolish workers have been schooled beyond Johnson's wettest dreams. It's the Trump-Putin-bin Salman party! An adjudicated sex offender and convicted fraudster, and a man who sanctioned a chemical warfare hit, killing a British citizen on British soil, have met at the luxury Saudi Arabian hotel of another man, who, according to the US, reportedly approved the murder and subsequent dismemberment of a journalist, to discuss the similarly brutal dismemberment of Ukraine, without consulting either Ukraine itself or the countries most directly affected by the legitimization of Putin's territorial anxieties. Don't worry, Poland! Stable genius Trump has got this covered, so break out the bone saws, pop the cork on the novichok and grab the girls by the pussy! There are 1970s Italian slasher films with less gruesome plotlines. Well said, Boris Johnson! That's certainly stuck it to the workers!

If only Johnson, and Trump's other cheerleaders in the right-wing press and on the right of the house, could be brave enough to call out Trump for what he is. If only Johnson had the moral courage of Ed Davey from the Liberal Democrats. In what newly warped reality does that sentence even exist? But, on balance, the whitewashing of the deaths of tens of thousands of Ukrainians is a small price to pay for the delight Trump has bought to the smiling faces of people who hate the transgender community, wild swimming enthusiasts and Guardian readers. Sniffing mineral rights in the air, like the smell of napalm in the morning, Trump has grabbed Ukraine by the pussy and he ain't gonna let go. Trump is, unequivocally, the worst thing to happen to human civilization since Hitler. And Ricky Gervais's After Life.

European politicians more rational and less self-serving than Johnson are trying to formulate the correct response to Trump's rapid and reckless redrawing of the postwar world disorder in his own, and Russia's, interests. The correct response is to shit your pants. On Tuesday, Trump even blamed Ukraine itself for being invaded, which is a bit like blaming E Jean Carroll herself for being sexually abused in a department store changing room. Couldn't she have cut a pre-emptive deal before things escalated? Victims! Always blaming someone else. But Trump has put the idea that the invasion of Ukraine is Ukraine's fault out there now, on the world stage, amplified by his collaborators in the tech bro media, and it will gradually calcify into one of those persistent alternative facts. By Wednesday he'd called Zelenskyy a dictator (and a mediocre comedian, which in my opinion is even worse).

Think what Hitler could have achieved if he'd had Twitter, currently X, and Google at his disposal

And it's that kind of reshaping of reality that needs a coherent European response. Recently, the US vice-president, JD Vance, who has the exact same face-beard as the main male oppressor in the TV adaptation of The Handmaid's Tale, came and told the Munich security conference that Scotland had made it illegal to pray silently in your own home. Many things are illegal in Scotland. Fruit, for example, and cushions, which are deemed too soft by the Scottish Cushion Committee. But not silent private prayer. Largely ignoring dead-in-the-water Ukraine, Vance also told Europe we had some kind of moral duty to allow unchecked, factually inaccurate bullshit to clog our infosphere via Trump's tech bro acolytes" social media platforms, his inflammatory comments about illegal Scottish prayer in the same speech proving exactly why such regulation is required. And I think he knows this.

Predictably, Vance was one of the three main early investors in Rumble, the social media site for all the people whose conspiratorial untruths and borderline criminality make them too toxic for other social media sites - Russell Brand, Alex Jones and Darth Vader etc - so he personally stood to profit from this sort of popularization of inflammatory actionable crap. As did fellow Rumble original main investor Peter Thiel, the man behind Palantir, the big tech company Wriggling Wes Streeting is keen to hand all our NHS data to, revealing an interlocking and endless web of bad influence that only "cat woman" Carole Cadwalladr had the persistence of vision to apprehend, and she's currently shunting off to a subscription Substack site, a crowdfunded Cassandra in an era busy eating its own brainstem.

For a brief period around teatime on Monday, Keir Starmer, who once left his "village and went to the city of Leeds" and "discovered a whole new world of indie bands - like Orange Juice and the Wedding Present" delusionally imagined he could be some kind of go-between twixt observable reality and Trump. But did West Yorkshire jangle-pop pioneers the Wedding Present radically retool their signature sound for 1991"s Seamonsters album just so Starmer could become a Neville Chamberlain for the cover-mounted fanzine flexidisc generation?

We have staved off outright fascism throughout most of Europe pretty well for 80 years now, but outright fascism in Europe was never quite so well funded and promoted as it is now, since the US government and the social media platforms that do its bidding decided backing outright fascism was a good way to smash the EU. Think what Hitler could have achieved if he'd had Twitter, currently X, and Google at his disposal. He wouldn't have needed the V2 rocket, Lord Haw-Haw and Hugo Boss. He could have razed half of Europe with a Hulk Hogan meme, some persuasive online misinformation and a dozen jauntily askew baseball caps.
