Game 9 of #UniversityChallenge was a hell of a match. Oriel Oxford (530 students) vs Durham (20,000), and Oriel won, which surprised me after some mistakes they made. The captain didn't know Wittengstein's name!? Possibly just nerves. Durham was ahead, then it was tied at 170, then they dropped to 165. A pity. I was rooting for them. Great team, with all four strong, so I hope they make the cut.

Game 10 of #UniversityChallenge had a great performance by Christ's Cambridge, who have a consultative captain, a good team, and a strong member named Bethlehem, so Roger Tilling called out "Christ's Bethlehem!" Exeter Oxford never got hold of much, and are out of the running. I could see Christ's Cambridge quietly going far in this series. 
Some nice math questions, a picture round connected to food, and a tricky flag question. Good game.

Game 11 of #UniversityChallenge was St Andrews (granted university status by an antipope!) vs Cardiff. First round is nearing its end. Some good questions, including mentions of roll-on roll-of ferries, Agnes Martin, and Stax Records. Cardiff Tarsala will never forget her Booker T bloomer, I'm afraid. Nice quizzing from both teams, though it only really got cracking in the last few minutes.

Game 12 of #UniversityChallenge was Leeds vs Edinburgh. Leeds took a long time to get going, then had a surge in the middle but couldn't keep it going. Seemed like a number of film questions this time, and I was glad to hear PEI as an answer; no flags, though it seems like they crop up every time. Edinburgh Myles is a good captain and the whole team is strong and works well together. I think they'll do well.

#UniversityChallenge game 13 was a curious one, with Leicester being jokey, wasting time and never getting going, while the LSE captain would often turn to the farthest player for an answer, which was not infrequently wrong. Still, LSE cleaned up. I liked the blues bonus round, though sadly Leicester got none. Canadian mentions: WL Mackenzie King and Margaret Atwood. The best part was Roger Tilling saying "Leicester Lister!"

Game 14 of #UniversityChallenge was top-notch stuff, solid quizzing, down to business, fast answers, good knowledge, close ending. It seems we'll see both SOAS London and St. Edmund Hall Oxford again, because the loser makes the repechage. Very close at the finish, down to "Naples" and "pollen." An unassumingly great game.

Game 15 of #UniversityChallenge is the first of two in the repechage, where the four highest-scoring losing teams try to make it through. This week was UCL and St. Andrews, in a good-natured cheery match. Very strong play from UCL, who have a solid team, and UCL Mandel was in top form. Good questions, some tough, such as requiring "panthera" specifically or knowing "day" in Russian.

Just got to game 16 of #UniversityChallenge today, a week late, and it was a nail-biter! Really fast work at the end, with Durham coming from behind in the last few minutes to catch SOAS London in a tie in the final seconds. It went to a starter question that I got on the first clue (being an SF reader I knew "slipstream") but neither team knew. Second question and SOAS London Lambert guessed alpaca but it was llama, so Durham won. Phew, what a finish. 😰

Game 17 of #UniversityChallenge is the first of eight knockout games in the second round. This was UCL and LSE, and UCL gave an outstanding performance: very fast buzzing, good teamwork, wide general knowledge from them all (UCL Mandel notable again); they took off at the start and never slowed. Very impressive.

Game 18 of #UniversityChallenge was Durham vs Open University. I was rooting for Durham, who have a great team, but in the end to my surprise Open took it, after a number of rather slow answers. I was glad Durham got Marcel Duchamp right on one question; too bad no one knew Yoko Ono as a Fluxus artist. Much respect for Durham Nash, especially on bird silhouettes and flags.

Game 19 of #UniversityChallenge was Exeter vs Bristol. Bristol got going at the start and never looked back, rolling with momentum, finishing with an incredible score. Exeter only clawed their way back to 0 after 17 minutes. 
I liked the question on common terms in Chinese place names, such as 北 (běi) in Beijing etc. Good geographic knowledge shown.

#UniversityChallenge is back from the Christmas alumni series, and game 20 was liked greased lightening in comparison. Darwin Cambridge Whitaker tore into questions like a monster, but everyone was in good form on that team and also on Edinburgh. Momentum changed through the game. Good quizzing. Three more games in round two, then the long quarter-finals.

It's quite a change to go from the Christmas series of #UniversityChallenge, where four people didn't know the name of the narrator of Moby-Dick even when told his name is in the first sentence of the book, to the regular round, where they're racing to buzz on questions like "Fifty-three British thermal units is to grouse hunting as Sydney, Australia, is to what famous star of the London stage?"

Game 21 of #UniversityChallenge was Wadham Oxford vs Imperial. What a game! Astounding performance from Imperial. 
However, being King Crimson fan, I was disappointed that no one recognized them from the opening of "21st Century Schizoid Man," and dismayed when someone thought "I Zimbra" by Talking Heads (with Fripp on guitar) was by the Bee Gees. Can't have it all. I remain incredibly impressed.

Game 22 of #UniversityChallenge was Christ's Cambridge vs St Edmund Hall Oxford, two small colleges, but that's how the rules are set up.  Nice picture round with the Dunning-Kruger effect, Asch conformity experiments, and bouba-kiki effect.  Another on mushrooms, which seemed tough to me; identifying them by eye is not easy. Solid game, good playing all around.

#UniversityChallenge game 23 was Cardiff against Queen's Belfast. Ended with a lower score than I felt it would get, maybe due to missed bonuses, but the starters were buzzed fast. Nice flag knowledge, and a good picture round identifying physical laws by diagrams of experiments. A bit too much bantz for my taste, but a solid game. One more before the quarter-finals.
