I idly proposed doing this yesterday so for March I will be posting one card I draw fom Suzanne Treister's Hexen 2.0 Tarot Deck per day of March.
The deck consists of all the major and minor arcana depicted by alchemical drawings of people and things from the history of technology, or, more specifically, "the scientific underpinnings of what Michel Foucault called bio-political governance."
Why? Because I actually have to do some tech-related talks this month, and also with the dark side of tech being so blatant lately, I felt the need to think about it more, and explore my associations/values etc!

March 1 - Starting with the 10 of Wands, typically representing overload, burden.
Here it is represented by a variety of early computing projects, many subsidized by their respective governments.
I think of how before a computer or calculator was a thing it was a job. Even after they existed, people still had to mediate, calculate, punch cards, interpret, etc. And in my own work I still often feel like a babysitter of inflexible computational quirks... why can't the spreadsheet software, or CMS, or database just do that mind-numbingly boring and burdensome stuff for me?
I also think how, even if it's built on what were once dull analog tasks, it's not -exactly- the same though, is it? In middle school computer lab I was taught a bit of BASIC, and being able to make a simple text "frogger" or branching adventure program, even if they were super rudimentary, was more compelling for some reason than imagining them or drawing them in a notebook... the sort of action at a delay/distance that computing offers, or that is computing's illusion...

March 2 - 9 of Swords... following on from the feelings of overload and burden yesterday, this card represents nightmares and anxiety about the future.
Appropriately it's represented here by The Tavistock Institute of Human Relations, a UK governmental body established in 1946 that acted regionally, nationally, and internationally for “the social engagement of social sciences” or more bluntly, using theoretical methods to “change behavior in groups and civilian populations.”
Obviously the name Tavistock brings to mind the overbearing interference of the UK government in constantly trying to block any sort of trans care, or only dispensing it as a last resort after you’ve gone through years of waiting around and a thorough psychiatric probing. A population where everyone just conformed to the two standard cis gender roles would indeed be much easier to control, so to a “Labour” government obsessed with means testing, pathologizing and cutting benefits, it’s of course desirable to treat “normality” as a virtue and any difference as disease to eliminate.
I could talk about so many things, the awful CBT and soft conversion therapy I’ve personally received in the UK, how state surveillance and punishment disproportionately targets autistic people, how even punitive and inadequate psychological care is too hard to access, how outcomes are measured in “productivity” rather than happiness. A tendency that is not technic in the big machines or internet enabled devices way, but has infested every aspect of life as much as people fear tiktok attention spans have; people I want to ally with constantly crowing “just be normal” or getting sucked down a health and fitness grifthole.
An exhausting and sad card. I’ll be honest, I almost put it back when I pulled it lol. But obviously a big part of contemporary technological thought nevertheless.

March 3 - The Star, hope, inspiration, future goals. A much more positive card than we've had so far!
But it's hard to feel positive about the massively exploitative and yet still totally underwhelming reality of artifical intelligence and quantum computing hype at the moment. The idea of an omnipotent computer, that could, indeed, simulate or work at an atomic or subatomic level, has kind of been the great dream of computing for a long time. It's almost a philosopher's stone type of thing.
Yesterday I reread this great essay on the current generative AI models by Hito Steyerl (https://newleftreview.org/issues/ii140/articles/hito-steyerl-mean-images). She does a great job of going into how reliant these systems still are on human-made images, cleaned data, and ongoing human moderation at every level, but she also makes the observation that while their outputs masquerade as bits of text or images, which people wrongly attribute intention or creativity to, they're really statistical representations, with all of the inherent ideology and limitations of statistics baked in.
What would a truly intelligent computer capable of expanding our analytical powers and relieving the burden of tedious labor and the risks of incomplete information look like, and under what context would it be used to reinvent life towards more autonomy and joy rather than accelerating exploitation and control? Can we hope for such a thing with IBM and DARPA still in the picture...?

March 4 - The King of Swords, intellectual drive, clarity, calling for authoritative action. A go-for-it type of thing.
Timothy Leary certainly was a sort of intellectually driven, though more of a “question authority” type. Likewise, looking it up, the Eight-circuit Model of Consciousness here is generally thought to have little actual scientific credibility. Still… what model of consciousness does? Despite being how all of our “information” comes to us, it’s kind of ambiguous what this thing actually is, much less if there’s any systemic patterns that determine how it works.
I find it kind of inspiring to contemplate a multi-part model of consciousness that is both inward and outward looking. Leary was also of a period where there was optimism about space exploration, and the possibility of making contact with other species, from Earth or beyond. Now we seem to find this idea kind of embarrassing, because the idea of explaining ourselves feels embarrassing. Which in a way is it’s own kind of constantly-reinforcing self-centeredness.
There’s nothing more self-centered in the irritating way than how psychedelics as self-help, a “miracle” mental illness cure, the one weird trick to go 10x or come up with that sick disruptive business deal or chill out your bitch wife, have kind of become mainstream now. It’s all very inward-looking to the point that there’s nothing besides inward-ness. What’s the point of a honed mind if you can’t, like the king of swords, point it outwards?

March 5 - Five of Pentacles... A difficult situation, struggle, financial insecurity.
Infrastructure... precisely that thing it never feels like there's enough cash for. ESPECIALLY in tech, where it always flows towards hype and disruption rather than maintaining what already exists.
The Internet is so huge, has such great practical benefits, and is an important part of so many peoples' lives, that of course we want the infrastructure maintained, and there to be good governance... Maybe it was the hype of the Internet itself that allowed some of these early gestures towards standardization and productive ground rules to stick.
Though there are a ton of tech corporations involved, a surprising amount was also done via the US Department of Defense directly, and now a lot of the corporations (ex- Don't Be Evil Google, for example) are chipping away at the principles they once helped set up... Whose infrastructure? It's always tied to governance, and always ideological. Be careful who you go asking for cash when you're broke...

March 6 - DEATH!! An inevitable and total transformation, possibly painful, but not necessarily The End...
A lot of anti-tech sentiment seems to wish that we could just put certain things back in the box. But the world where the technology that provides connection and access to information was entangled by its maybe well-intentioned originators with military and surveillance culture, game theory and bombs, is the world we have.
I always found the PVP gimmick for MGSV's online mode to be weirdly inspiring... if we want to live in a world without the atomic bomb, it'll have to be one where we took them all apart with our own hands. And it'll be one where the knowledge that it was made at one time will also always be a thing. How we frame it is up to us... there is no going back. How terrifying, how wonderful.
