🧵 Indigo's journey to a new life! A thread
Note: all major updates will start with the thread emoji
Im attempting to move to Germany and find a new life! Follow this thread to follow this journey
The last 32 hours or so were HORRIBLE! Panic attack, extreme fatigue, nausea.
But! Look at where I am! The airport!! I fucking did it!
I pushed myself too hard and ended up not sleeping for 32 hours. As of right now (write now) I am on the 33rd hour :p. Looking back, this is the way, and it wouldnt have happened any other way. ADHD is a Tanzanian to tame. 
EDIT: tazmanian.
I have done so much in the last 3 months! I thought it would have only taken me 1 month, but severely underestimated EVERYTHING. Rebooked the flight twice, but with 2 deadlines, this plane is it! 
Gosh.. I met with realtor, packed (most) of the house, gave a 1/3 of my stuff away, the appropriate ppl have access to the rest, and my sister can be a PoA should need be. 7 or so documents apostille'd, degree recognized in Germany, language coarse booked, (potentially a scam) appartment rental reserved, vital documents ascertained! I also have a internationally certified document proving I am not a criminal! ITS GO TIME!

🧵 Officially in Germany! Got my Visa, new SIM card in (Spain) and awaiting the train to Köln.
Gotta be honest. I screwed myself with bags. Too heavy for this smol trans girl 😅. Navigating where to get my luggage was fun! Turns out connections via train from plane are elsewhere. I'm usually pretty collected, but its a bit of stress Ill be honest. But only because as-it-stands right now, I have no support systems. I dont know this city. Have heavy luggages. Etc. Etc. 
I have never been more parched in my life! 
Ps: I have a story from the plane that isnt appropriate for fedi. And thats saying something! (doesnt involve me) 
Booked a hotel (yea yea.. Late on that.. But i SHOULD have an appt. Tomorrow.) 
First impressions of Germany: architecture, even of the steel & glass of the train station, does not dissapoint! Germanic design totally didnt play any role in my choice of destinations 😝.

Okay, the first German words to learn will have to be train & transit related. Future Indi, make a note!
Seattle & San Francisco are the best public transits in America [citation needed] and once you figure it out, it really is zip zap zoom on and off and you're there! I want to get to that, but even living in Seattle it took me a few months.

🧵 NOTE: Do NOT get on on the opposite end of the train when carrying 3 bags!
I took note of the prev train and prepared to whre I thought was car 1.
Im that bumbling American today 🚬😎

🧵 A simple breakfast, but god is it good.
I sure hope lactase enzymes are easily accessible in Deutschland, or else Im in trouble 😅. Nom nom nom 🥐

🧵 I got my keys! Sweaty, hot, and went through an ordeal getting the keys from skeevy old man neighbor-building landlord who was totally hitting on me. Ugh. Sometimes it sucks being cute. 
Do i pass or something?! Or does he not care? XD
I meet my landlord on Monday for anmeldung registration paper, mailbox name, contract (that I asked for) and the like. Ive been told having the keys bestows some tennant-rights/protections so we good. 
Appartment rental for 3-months though! Lets gooo
EDIT: Reposted with keys erased

For those wondering, I still have my hotel room. I played it safe and didn't want to rely on being able to get keys yesterday with luggage in tow

🧵 I now have a German telefonnummer! Exciting!
That travel sim I bought did help bridge the gap, but the service was horrendous and relied on roaming. I was also under the impression it could dial out, which it could not. I already needed to call a German number.
The SIM salesperson was also an expat (not american) and I had the nicest conversation! He wanted tips with learning programming*, and I asked how long to learn German and he was super inspiring! Saying that those who must learn—like for work—learn much more and faster! He encouraged me to keep with it and in 3 months I should be fine 🫶. 
I will try to keep my numver when I inevitably switch. I chose this from convenience. Being that he didnt even require me an address, only an ID to activate. 
Aside: no, I didnt think D-Netz was a Deez Nuts reference... Ofc not xD. You're silly for even thinking that haha
(*hes starting in Python! Which I think is the MOST fun, even if someone has to unlearn bad habits. I think its a valuable litmus test for those to see if programming is for them) 

🧵 Today's agenda:
1. Finish professional CV (most important!)
2. Find out how to get to private German language coarse (starts tomorrow, in-person). 
3. Trip to appartment from hotel with backpack (slowly bringing stuff over. I overencombered myself)
4. Eat out! (food! Get ur mind out of the gutter! Lol) 
Im delaying being a tourist. I found out about the Köln-karte, a tourist 1-2 day pass that lets you do stuff. I dont nessisarily WANT to delay being a tourist... But shit has to get done. Ya know? Its different when I'm trying to establish a foothold. 
Plus it'll be good to do it in the week. Im in Köln M-Th for classes at 16:00-18:00. Meaning I could spend the best portion of the day outside ☀️💜
Know what didnt make the cut? What i had to nix? My fucking drawing tablet! It was an old Galaxy Book (wacam digitizer). But I really wanna draw! Thats how I want to visit Germany. Go to random place. Sketch. People watch. Sketch. Sure... Paper... But have you USED a digital canvas? Lol. Maybe Ill buy a used ipad.

🧵 Time to go grocery shopping in this tiny town of 75k. Kinda nervous.
---
Also I got bumped on my language course 😭. Not enough people this cycle. 
I inquired about normal attendance and they said I just so happen to get unlucky, because their A1.1 course is their most popular. But its all good! They DO have an online course that starts next week. Ill probably take that, even though I wanted to be in person for multiple reasons :p. Ill get started with my vocabulary with Anki/SRS in the meantime. LetMeTellYou I can study well 😬

🧵 My first homecooked breakfast in my new home
I made thebstrawberry compote from scratch using fresh strawberries. I had no spatula, coffee water from stove boiling. Everything is slightly harder without my wares :p

🧵 A trick to ordering food in Germany:
If a number is called 5 times, it's your number

🧵 Even the dogs here speak German! They are all wauwau insteaf of Bark Bark

🧵 Omgosh free TV! I was thinking of buying a used one! And it says it works?
Cant read the rest. Must not be important.
Well! I found out what the rest says! It says that the stand is broken and will fall down the tile stairwell making the absolute loudest sounds possible if not careful!
Noted

🧵 I swear... Every day in a new country is an absolute adventure! Nothing is easy!not even ordering coffee and treat.
Tasse cafe creme
**gestures 1 finger up and points to pastry I dont even know what its calle din english**
I KNEW she asked if it was for here or to go. I tried to gesture to go. But... Well.. End result is I ate in. Asked for a Kästchen on the way out. Got a bag! Alright! That one Ill count as a success.
Anyone else's first days a whirlwind? I feel like Ive been here for weeks. No exaggeration! The midday naps in which I sleep harder than a tardigrade in a global ice age probably doesnt helo my sense of passage of time :p

🧵 So I was upset to give away my Sodastream and Restaurant sized canister mod for it, because I've been big into fizzy water and making homemade healthy sodas.
TURNS OUT Germany LOVES FIZZY WATER! You actually have to specify Flat sometimes! 😅 
I just like it because when it's overcarbonated and you drink it and it's so intense it hurts... it feels refreshing! 
🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧

🧵 Okay... I dont want the honeymoon phase to end >_>. More great German things plz :P
Okay. There are some downsides. All food tastes so..... how do I put it... German XD. Comically so!
I've eaten Korean, Chinese, Taiwanese and Japanese cuisine now. And all of them have the distinct taste of.. sauerkraut?? But, it's in the rice itself. The part thats supposed to be the most neutral of flavor.
I made Gnocci Carbonarra (white sause) and, while it was funking delicious, tasted like Brätwurst. I thought I was safe making food at home, but I'm not xD. 
Now, I've eaten authentic italian in Syracuse NY (it's an italian historic city) and been to Taiwan. So I wonder if given time my taste buds will adapt and I will think everything tastes like how I remember it. Like as if there are subtle tones I'm just not used to yet 🤔 . And hense why I THINK everything has a foreign taste to it.
Aside: Also these arn't new foods to me so Im comparing them to what I know. Versus trying... say... Ethiopian cuisine (something new)

🧵 I am not officially registered in Germany! Anmeldung in-hand! Woo 🎉
And I knew a lot for German than I thought in this exchange! I practiced German and she practiced English. (we both were being humble, but her English was good) 
"Im sorry to ask... But are you man, woman, or divers?" 💜💜
We proceeded to talk about that. And she said she wondered if maybe thats why I come from states and I was like: yes, its so nice to hear other people understand. Omg.
She said shes happy that people [like me] come and see Germany as a safe place 🫶

🧵 Netflix has joined the list alongside Ebay, Amazon, and Zelle in deactivating/locking my accounts due to 'suspicious activity'. And amongst the greater list of systems putting me in what we'd call "The Bad Flow" at work. (The flowchart of what the worst-case scenario looks like for a probable bad-actor).
Freenet Funk denied me 3 times, but the 4th went through. FINALLY received their sim card. Expatrio did finally accepted my totally valid proof of residence after declining it the first time (my literal proof of anmeldung, which they stated is valid...) and unlocked my account last week. And the money that went into the void? It did turn up. So not all things are perilously bad, but I am literally swimming upstream against a system hellbent on making my life as difficult as possible.
And here is where I could talk about systemic oppression being literal digital systems, and how these issues wouldn't happen to someone who came over on a job transfer. But I came over the hard way, unregistered, and flagged one system which I'm sure triggered the next and the next. It all started around when I stopped doing tourist stuff :P. But ultimately my suspicious behavior is abruptly moving overseas. I was explicitly told so by the ebay personnel on the phone. (They even told me it's extremely unlikely for someone to move countries. so in ebay's case it sounds like you'd always get flagged).
Aside: A victory, buying laundry tokens from the hausmeister! I memorized a few words and shit bricks when I WhatsApp'd him and he called me immediately on the phone xD.

🧵 My house was robbed.
Also, I'm sick again?! A relapse?
I better get better before surgery in less than 23 days...

🧵 Add Paypal to the list of accounts I got locked out of.
Absolutely unbelievable...
Unfortunately, I dont know how to resolve this one. I tried calling US paypal and they wont touch German Paypal (I have 2 accounts. I'm supposed to have one account per country according to Paypal FAQ).
But I dont know German to navigate a fluid conversation like that of unlocking an account. And having someone help... is... this is sensitive stuff. So I'm at a crossroads.
