Just fell down a Doritos rabbit hole

headding down to CVS harmacy to pick my wife up some tissues (medicated due to sickness) so i'm hungry after my work day of looking at computer screen and i pass the snack aisle and my attention is pepsi universed to a little bag on the shelf that is doritos. but of course it is not regular doritos but rather the bag is all-black with a neon sort of aesthetic to it and the dorito bag prominently displays the words DORITOS: LATE NIGHT. of course under a crease the sub-flavor is "loaded taco"

so of course i pick it up and i eat it and it tastges like the taco bell beef seasoning mixed with nacho cheese with that little hint of somehow synthesized taco bell lettuce and it tastes spot-on, big prop to the dorito scientists who are in hell, but i continue to be plagued by the concept of doritos late night line. flavors that are representative of late night. i begin to think: what other late night flavors are possible? Several Beers flavor? Indica Nightmare?

its then that the immortal words of mao resonate through my loaded taco skull to go investigate instead of fantasizing about Difficult Conversation Doritos so i go and try to track down doritos late night line. 500 food products are released to the US public every year and about 480 of them disappear within 6 months and pepsico knows this which is why they don't do any marketing or advertisement - blind drops at the corner, secret boxes where the arrival IS the announcement. theres very little

what i manage to collate is this: there are three other flavors of late night doritos: Sizzlin' Cheeseburger (?), Last Call Jalapeno Poppers (??) and "Chili Sandwich", which is not a flavor. however in my attempts to find out anything about the doritos late night line, i stumble upon DORITOS AFTER DARK @ THE CRYPTO.COM STADIUM, the official doritos concept restaurant. thinking that the marketing is perhaps a near-miss, i nearl yclose the tab but for spotting LATE NIGHT in copyright font.

what i have concluded is as follows:
- doritos after dark, which is not a chips brothel, has nearly nothing to do with doritos late night, despite both being named the same thing and having near-identical branding. i assume this is something like when your older brother gives you a shirt with his name monogrammed on the lapel
- everybody responsible for doritos after dark is going to loaded hell

we don't necessarily need an ersatz munch squad about this - we live in america, the average manhole leads to the garden of earthly delights original mario bros movie style, so why should the lakers arena be necessarily different. it's, like, fair food, no worse than fried oreos. even so, there is something perhaps post-fierian about the ramen-rito, a burrito where the primary carbohydrate substrate is cooked ramen, and which advertises "fresh scallions". Uh, yeah, I sure hope it does.

to dine here is to reap the wine-dark benefits of being a ticketholder at the crypto.com stadium, home of the fucking lakers - i don't know how much lakers tickets cost, but i do know that the lakers are basically the yankees of basketball, which means the price of a ticket is counted in teeth. so yes. "Kick it up a notch." "Taste a bold new act." wh - why is that doritos bag so *airbrushed?* it's giving adam sandler click. but i'm nitpicking here. It's your The Lakers, you choose the food.

Nah.

you know that picture of the guy with the shirt that says 0 fears and then bart swimpson porn is banned so it says 1 fear? It's similar to that except now i am afraid to eat the home cooking of anybody i do not know intimately because there is a slim yet extant chance that i might sit down to a delicious home cooked normals dinner to eat with them in their house and similar to judas at the famous dinner they might kiss my cheek good-like then serve me up "COOL RANCH BISCUITS WITH HONEY BUTTER"

like ther eis undoubtedly, because the world is so so so sosososoo big and we are so small one person per person and information is so big and free, somebody who has made this, and then served it to someone who does not have the same brain as them. homecooked food is meant to be eaten. like it's a social problem now, sitting down in your breaksfast nook, or your table, and your wifey brings in a charcuterie board, like this, and you have to eat it. or it's bad for you. like as a person.

there's a lot of things that are wrong with america. this doesn't clock the 15th percentile. it's just an average sort of excess, another straw on the like last descendant of the great plains buffalo's ailing back. even so, even being as jaded to the way that americans eat as i am, having ordered a one-scoop cup of superman flavor ice cream last night, i find that i have not and could never reach rock bottom. there is a 121st day of sodom, my uncle who works at nintendo told me about it.