As I said a few months ago [boing.world], the estate offered me a garage meaning I finally have somewhere to put a van that I can convert into a microcamper.
So I bought this Berlingo last month.
I thought the fact it was already converted into a van would probably make the camper-conversion easier.
Turns out that's likely not really the case. So it goes. It's previously been converted for a wheelchair ramp, which means the floor has been lowered, and this means there's nowhere safe to bolt rear passenger seats, and so can't have that "rock and roll" bed, that converts into seatbelted seats for passengers.
It does add a large underfloor storage area though.
I thought it would be fairly easy to remove the metal plates over the windows, but that turned out to be a mistaken assumption too. Was no metal plates. They'd just painted over the glass with some metallic paint. Luckily this can be just scraped off, presumably with some paint dissolving solvents applied too. Dunno. I let the professionals handle that.

The folks that can do an actually good job of converting it into a microcamper are busy till July, so I get to play at doing a half arsed job to tide it over until then.
First job is taking out the floor to gain access to that underfloor area and to cover that in linoleum. Had some lying around after they did the bathroom last year.
Then to refit the floor and cover all that in a red felt carpet.
The job is shoddy here really. What's needed is to insulate the entire body of the car and then cover professionally and well, but I dunno how to do all that. I just used spray glue to fasten this stretch carpet to the existing wood, that'll be replaced when it's converted proper anyway.
The roof will remain cold and metal till then.

This chair works very well in the van. Should ideally be fastened better to the floor, but it has a nice three mode positions.
Seating, and chaise-long, and flat as a bed with the passenger seat folded down.

You can get a folding leaf table, and if you saw off the bottom 15cm or so of the panels forming the sides and front of the table, and also don't bother to attach any of the the back leaf, then it becomes just the right height to mostly fit under the rear window.
It's a little higher than the camper-fridge, but the camper fridge is pretty much the same height as a little bedside cabinet.
There's also a small rectangular sink that fits nicely around the same width as the fridge alongside that cut down table.
And thus, the interior can be mostly constructed in my flat. The kids in the flat upstairs kept waving as me as I was doing a terrible job of cutting down those panels with a jigsaw in the yard.

Then there's a whole day of carrying those things out to the van and trying to screw them into the floor.
Had to swap the fridge and the cabinet around from the plan. The fridge is less deep than it is wide and doesn't block the table-leaf when it's at the edge with door facing the front of the car.
I expected to have to pause here and measure up and buy some wood, but someone had thrown out a desk that matches very well and a bit more sawing managed to get that into the right shape to build a frame to hold everything in place.
That sink is attached by only one of the six grips that are supposed to hold it. Two can't be used flat against a wooden board, and 3 aren't against anything at all right now.
Maybe I can get to attach better when the pump and tap arrive.

I like the easy access to battery and water and things from the back. Fair amount of storage there too which is accessible from inside if the table is up.
Still need to put the water pump into the water cannister, and power it, and attach some sort of tap to it.

And that's about as good a job as I can do really. Hopefully some of it will still be useable in a few months when it's done properly by a professional.
At least the fridge ought to carry over.
The bed folding down past the passenger seat is great. I'm too talk for this van really, but that makes it workable. Shame the seat/bed has to be so narrow though. The two-seater was very temping and feels like it ought to just about fit but, wouldn't really be any way to unfold it from within the van and the steering wheel gets in the way for folding the driving seat down like the passenger seat does so couldn't really go flat without also lifting up.

Thank goodness for Blender! Not sure I could have planned all that and had any hope of it all working out if I couldn't do it in virtual 3d first.
3 frames to show the 3 main configurations. Sit, Desk, and Sleep.